- [Instructor] Now, as promised in the previous video
I wanna spend a little bit of time talking about
the two different types of encryption.
Specifically, Asymmetric or public private key encryption.
And Symmetric or shared key encryption.
Now there are few fundamentals we need to talk about.
So Symmetric encryption or shared key encryption
is a method of encryption where both parties involved
share a common key.
That common key is used, and must be kept secret
by both parties.
So in a traditional Alice and Bob example of cryptography,
Alice will encrypt a message using the shared key
and send it to Bob who can then decrypt it
using the same shared key.
Obviously, the issue with symmetric encryption is
that both parties must have a secured mechanism
by which to share that key,
and often on the public internet that is not possible.
Now, asymmetric encryption
or public/private key pair encryption
is based on the concept that the two keys
are mathematically related
therefore I can use one to encrypt and the other to decrypt.
So, in this example Alice will create
a public key and a private key
and she will then share her public key openly to everyone.
She can therefore encrypt a message
with her private key and send it to Bob.
Bob can then decrypt the message using Alice's public key
and read it in plain text.
Now, the interesting side effect of this is,
that if Bob wants to send a private message to Alice
he actually can encrypt the data using Alice's public key
and she can then decrypt it using her private key.
So, asymmetric encryption works both ways.
Now, the uses of these are very, very different
but you might guess that the asymmetric keys
work really good on distributed systems,
where symmetric keys
tend to work really good on private systems.
Now there are some performance considerations
between the two.
Shared key block or stream ciphers are relatively quick
when you consider the operations being performed.
Public key encryption, however,
is extremely slow
in relation
to symmetric key encryption.
Now often what happens is,
is you use PKI
for the operation to solely transfer
a shared key
and then do all other communications using that shared key
because now you have a way of sharing it
between two parties in a secure fashion.
And as a matter of fact, this is exactly how TLS
often confused for SSL works on the public internet today.
The handshake operation between a client and the server
is really designed to get a shared key
between the two for that session.
Now, symmetric keys have very distinct uses.
Most of the time when we have data at rest,
such as in a database or messaging system,
or even on a file system.
We're gonna sue symmetric block cipher to encrypt that data.
We also use symmetric block encryption for data in motion.
We used to use stream ciphers
but I alluded to the last chapter
how stream ciphers can actually be broken.
And streams like RC4 are considered no longer secure
and TLS want to actually remove them from the list.
Now, asymmetric has some very distinct uses as well.
We've talked a few times about TLS
or Transport Layer Sockets,
and this is really how the internet works over the HGDPS.
Digital signatures or non repatriation
is actually based on a symmetric encryption.
And we're gonna talk a lot about that
in the chapter on Digital signatures.
Certificate trusts are really based on the same concept
so you create a public key and a private key
and you sign that with the trusted authorities private key
and can confirm that signature with their public key.
And the chain goes on and on.
And that is how trust is build on the internet
from a central CA.
So, now that we've talked about
asymmetric and symmetric encryption.
Let's actually jump into symmetric
and perform the actual operations.